12/28/96 13:46:35 Enhanced     Page 7  
12/20/96 FRI 12:01 PAX 312 861 2200 58 59 KIRKLAND ELLIS

CTR - Gen

J. E. EDENS  
B&W INDUSTRIES  
C. I. McCarty  
Dr. I. W. Hughes  
DonBain Bryant

ERNEST PEPPLES/dlt  
CTR Budget  
April 4, 1978

American Brands has at last agreed to go along with the level  
of funding which the CTR requested of the companies and which  
B&W tentatively agreed to in December. RJR, PM and Lorillard  
also are ready to approve a permanent budget. Add Yeaman 
Shortly will schedule a meeting for this purpose.  

American, RJR and PM continue to harbor doubts concerning the  
operation and direction of CTR. I think American will not vote  
for the budget but will agree to pay their share of the full  
funding. You will remember Mr. Heimann's letter dated  
December 6 to Add Yeaman. The letter took strong exception  
to the program of directed, contract work under which the  
staff of CTR plans and directs the research. Heimann says  
CTR should be a grantor organization and nothing more. In  
Heimann’s view, CTR should make grants to reputable scientists  
who are exploring areas of interest in the smoking and health  
controversy and the grantees, as opposed to CTR, should be  
responsible for the plan of research. It’s a distinction  
without much difference but American embraces it  
nonetheless.  

American has also concluded that part of the central nervous  
system/nicotine work poses a question with respect to the  
assurances which the companies gave to the Justice Department  
to the effect that none of the scientific work at CTR would  
have commercial application. Philip Morris and Lorillard  
concur in the view that some of the central nervous system  
(CNS) work has commercial overtones, specifically work which  
would lead to blocking agents or substitutes for nicotine.  

The Committee of Counsel has worked out the following compromise  
which all companies seem ready to accept and which is satisfactory  
to American. The CNS work under contract and already going  
forward will continue. Before CTR embarks on any new work in
this area, however, we need to take a long look at it from  
the standpoint of possible commercial overtones and perhaps  
before the CTR staff submits material in this area to SAB  
some pre-screening will be needed to avoid raising the anti
-trust risk.
